To send e-mails to a big list of email contacts and to get analytics on all those campaigns what you
need to do is set up in an account with an email service provider.
There are tons of options out there but the one that I recommend and use is MailChimp.
It works on any type of site.
They've been around for ages and they are also free to use up to two thousand subscribers which is always
a great reason to use product.
So what you want to do is type in MailChimp into Google.
Go ahead and just click through and then you can go ahead and sign up and you can sign up with your
personal account.
If it'll only be you using it where you can sign up with your company email if you want as well.
Now once inside watch you want to do is come up and click on lists and then you want to create a list
and you can just go ahead and create a list.
So by creating a list we'll be able to send one e-mail to everybody that's on our list.
So we need to fill out some of the less details like the list name.
So they even help you walk through some of this here.
A good example is just your domain name and newsletter.
So I'll just put in example the main.
Now here we want to put it in the default Frome address and this is the address that people will respond
to.
Now this will need to be an email that you have access to because then you'll need to verify this in
just a second but it's best not to put in a domain specific e-mail that you will have set up next.
Select the default name and use something the in you recognize like your company name.
So I'll just say example to me now what we want to do is put in a short reminder about how they got
this e-mail and you can just re rewrite the example down here.
You are receiving this e-mail because you opted in on our site.
It's just a requirement for anti spam down here as well.
You're going to need to input some of your company information so you can change this to your company
name and address.
You don't need to put it in like the number say your office whatever 10 A you can just put in the street
address in the city name etc..
Again this is just anti spam measure maelstrom proxy required to collect this information.
So next you can just put in your country and your state and the phone number if you want as well.
And then you can also select if you want to get notifications of a simple daily subscribers on subscribers
cetera and then you want to go ahead and click save so.
Excellent.
We now have created a brand new list.
And one thing that we actually want to do right now before we start to import contacts or anything is
actually to verify our email address.
So what I'd recommend you do is go and type and verify all verify email MailChimp and what we need to
do is just to show MailChimp that we own that domain that we've popped in.
And so what you can see have to do is come then into account and it may actually even show up if we
come into settings lists the names and let's see.
Yep it says it here.
This is actually maybe the easier way to do it.
So he come into your list and then you come in to settings lists name and defaults you're going to see
that you have to verify your domains that you can send emails and receive replies from this mail.
So what we can do is go ahead and click verify domain here.
We can just pop in or e-mail address get them to send a verification email.
The verification is e-mail on the way.
So I just need to go and get that
so to do that I'm just logging into my host on where I've set up my domain specific email and now I
can see this verification email from MailChimp.
So I just need to get into this and verify the domain access.
I can actually just take this code.
Copy this page step back in and click verify.
So now my domain has been successfully verified so I can send emails with this email appearing and also
receive emails back.
So now that I've verified my email what I might want to do is come back to my list again and I now have
the opportunity to start to import context into this email list if I want.
So if you've already got some email addresses maybe from LinkedIn maybe from G.M. maybe from other sources
you can just import those CSP files there.
And you could just upload those and what you can also do which is sometimes Handy is you can use actually
copy and paste email addresses in.
So this is going to just give you a tab that you really just copy and paste them into.
And once you've got that done then you're going to have a list of emails that you can send an email
directly as to.
And again the benefit of setting it up in MailChimp is that you can send send them in bulk you are not
going to get caught in that spam filter as opposed to if you're sending a bulk email from a personal
address.
They're going to recognize your your brand name and also you get all those cool analytics like how many
people open the email and etc. sonata you know how to set up a mailchimp account for free.
Go ahead and set one up for yourself.
Don't forget to verify that domain.
And if you've any questions or problems with that just check their support guides and then you can go
ahead and import those contacts so you're ready to start sending an email campaigns to your email list.